Your TA's name:



Students in your studio group:

    Name  Gillian Laming      Student ID 457507
	
1. Alexis Costales   457323
2. Sahara Ensley     448785
3. Catherine Kuhn 450441
4. Stella Sterman 451240
5.
6.

Below each question, type in your short, to-the-point answers.

Question A1: 
	What do you see in both plots? 
	Both plots are increasing with respect to n.
	Are there any differences between the two?
	The linear graph is linear and the quadratic graph is quadratic.
	What could account for those differences?
	For the quadratic graph, as n increases the number of ticks increases at an increasing rate, 
	thus giving it a quadratic shape. Quadratic.java uses a nested loop, whereas the linear.java only uses 
	one loop.
	
Discuss this (and all your responses for this assignment) with your TA as you go.

Question A2:
	Why do the times provided for Quadratic produce such a nice plot, while the original values of Linear did not?
	for the Linear, the cost of running the program was so low that it wasn't able to be measured. Since Quadratic is
	increasing faster, the outputs become larger and are therefore able to be measured. 
Question A3: 
	From the runs you have tried so far, how does the placement of ticker.tick() calls affect the plots you see? 
	In particular, do the changes affect the shapes of the curves, the values plotted, or both
	The shape of the plots looked about the same, but the number of ticks went way up, and the time went down.
	The placement of ticker tick calls didn't seem to affect the plots at all: they consistently looked the same.
	
Question A4: 
	In terms of n, how would you characterize, in the most simple terms, 
	the time and ticks curves that have been generated so far?
	Generally, all of the time and tick curves have been quadratic. As n increases, the number of ticks are also
	increasing. 
		
Question A5: 
	What would happen if you deleted all ticker.tick() calls in the innermost loop,
	while leaving other calls to ticker.tick() that you just placed in run()?
	The graphs look linear because the nested loop is no longer being used to count ticks, which is 
	how the linear one recorded ticks.
	
Question B1:
	What do you see? How do the curves reflect the code inside AddsTwoNumbers?
	Do you think the value of n matters here in terms of the time it takes to perform the operation?
	Why or why not?
	For the number of ticks, it begins at 0 when n is zero (because the code returns), and is otherwise 
	a horizontal line. The time plot resembles a horizontal line, but has more fluctuation than the ticks 
	graph had. The ticks graph shows that the number of ticks does not rely on n, and thus is horizontal. There are
	more factors in determining the time it takes to execute the function, which is why the time graph fluctuates. 
	The value of n doesn't seem to matter in terms of the time it takes to execute, because the plot is nearly 
	horizontal.
Question B2:

	What do the data and plot tell you about the time it takes to allocate an array of n integers?
	Is it reasonable to say that the line of code

 		this.array = new int[this.n]
 		
	takes a constant amount of time, independent of the value of this.n?
	
	The plot shows that the time increases as n increases, so the line of code does not 
	take a constant amount of time (it is dependent on n). The plot is linear, so time increases
	constantly as n increases.
	
Question B3:
	Do the ticks agree in shape with the time we measured in running the Allocates code?
	
	The ticks plot is a horizontal line which does not agree in shape with the time plot. 
	this means that although time is dependent on n, the number of ticks is independent of n. 
	
Question B4:
	Are the plots more similar to each other than before?
	What does this tell you about how much time it takes to allocate an array of n integers?
	
	The plots are much more similar than they were before. Both plots are increases as n increases,
	which means that the time it takes to allocate an array of n integers depends on n.
	
Question B5:
	Which group do you expect to finish first?
	Can you formalize, in terms of n the amount of work (ticks)
	that each group must do to write n in the form required for that group?

	Both groups achieve the same result, namely the recording of an integer n.

		Under what circumstances is the decimal notation more efficient than tally marks?
		Under what circumstances is the tally mark notation more efficient than decimal notation?
		
	If you are not sure, take a look the link from the assignment web page.
	
	I would expect the decimal team to finish first because the time it takes them to write is dependent on how many
	digits is in the number (log base 10), whereas it would take the talliers n amount of time because they would need to 
	write n tallies. The decimal notation is more efficient when you are recording one number, but the
	tally notation is more efficient when you are simply adding one to the number you originally had (because you only need 
	one stroke as opposed to erasing and then recording a new decimal).
	
Question D1:
	How would you describe the curve you see?
	As a team, think about possible polynomial functions that could generate such a curve.
	Write your answer here:
	
	The curve looks like it could be quadratic because it increases at an increasing rate with respect
	to n. perhaps the function is x^2. 
	
Question E1:
	What is the closed form solution for T(n)?
	T(n) = (n(n+1)/2)
	
Question E2:
	What is the closed form solution for T(n)?
	Can you express this result in terms of n, as well as k?
	Write your answer here:
	
	2^(k+1) - 1     in terms of k
	
	2n-1           	in terms of n
	
	