Studio 2 write up

Your TA's name:



Students in your studio group:

    Name        Student ID (begins with a 4)
	Gillian Laming 457507
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Below each question, type in your short, to-the-point answers.

Part A

What do you see in the plots for ticks and time?

Both curves are increasing at an increasing rate

How would you characterize those curves?

They both appear to be quadratic

Based on the current code for addLast, why do you see this behavior?
Because each time a new element is added to the linked list, the computer has to go through each element 
already in the list

Part B

What behavior do you see now for appending n items to a list if you use a tail reference?

The graph is linear because it does not have to iterate through n times. The time is 0.

While we have reasoned so far only about time, if we are adding n elements to the end of a list, what is the asymptotic complexity of the additional space required when using the tail reference?

When using a tail reference, the computer does not have to iterate thru all of the elements every time,
so the asymptotic complexity is O(n). 

Under what conditions would you recommend using a linked list with a tail reference vs. a linked list without at tail reference?

If you are appending to the end of a linked list, it would be faster to use a linked list with a tail reference 
because that way it would not have to iterate through the entire linked list. For some linked list functions, like
appending to the beginning of the list, having a tail reference will not affect the amount of time it takes, 
but it will also not slow down the runtime. 

Part C

Why does getSize() take the time it does?

getSize() takes the time that it does because it has to go through each element in the list
and add to count so it takes n amount of time to execute. 

How did you achieve Θ(1) performance for getSize()?

By creating a new instance variable count and incrementing count each time the tail changes, you can achieve
bigTheta(1) because when you get to getSize, you simply return this.count.

